Docs: SceneApp (#172)
grafana/scenes: docusaurus/docs/scene-app-drilldown.md

---
id: scene-app-drilldown
title: Drilldown views in scene app
---

> Drilldowns are a powerful tool for building complex, data-driven applications. They allow to create high level overview of the data that user can interact with and progressively explore to reveal underlying data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Drilldown views are a powerful tool for building complex, data-driven applications. They allow you to create a high-level overview of the data that a user can interact with and progressively explore to reveal underlying data.
```

## Add drilldown views to scene app

`SceneAppPage` comes with an API that allows creating deep, nested drilldown views.

:::info
This guide requires knowledge about React Router URL params, Grafana field configuration and data links.
:::

To create a drilldown view for `SceneAppPage`, use `drilldown` property of the `SceneAppPage` object.

### Step 1. Create SceneApp

Follow [Building apps with scenes guide](./scene-app.md) to build your app.

### Step 2. Build top level drilldown page

> On this page we will show a summary of average duration of HTTP request for Prometheus API endpoints using Grafana's Table panel.

Reviewer: I have to check on whether these visualization types should be capitalized or not. That's not a blocker for this PR—I'll circle back on that—but just wanted to raise that I've seen it both ways in this PR and I need to check what we're doing more widely.
```suggestion
On this page, we'll show a summary of the average duration of HTTP requests for Prometheus API endpoints using Grafana's table panel.
```

```ts
function getOverviewScene() {
  const queryRunner = new SceneQueryRunner({
    $timeRange: new SceneTimeRange(),
    datasource: {
      type: 'prometheus',
      uid: '<PROVIDE_GRAFANA_DS_UID>',
    },
    queries: [
      {
        refId: 'A',
        expr: 'sort_desc(avg by(handler) (rate(prometheus_http_request_duration_seconds_sum {}[5m]) * 1e3))',
        format: 'table',
        instant: true,
      },
    ],
  });

  const tablePanel = new VizPanel({
    title: 'Average duration of HTTP request',
    pluginId: 'table',
  });

  return new EmbeddedScene({
    $data: queryRunner,
    body: new SceneFlexLayout({
      direction: 'column',
      children: [
        new SceneFlexItem({
          minHeight: 300,
          body: tablePanel,
        }),

>       ],

Reviewer 2: For this example, why not create everything inline? I would also place the queryRunner on the VizPanel (it becomes easier I think for users to use this as a starting point that way).

Author: @torkelo it's on purpose, as in the next step the code modifications only apply to tablePanel (overrides/data links). But good point about query runner

import { locationService } from '@grafana/runtime';

// ...

const tablePanel = new VizPanel({
  title: 'Average duration of HTTP request',
  pluginId: 'table',
  fieldConfig: {
    defaults: {},
    overrides: [
      {
        matcher: {
          id: 'byName',
          options: 'handler',
        },
        properties: [
          {
            id: 'links',
            value: [
              {
                title: 'Go to handler overview',
                onBuildUrl: () => {
                  // Use @grafana/runtime location service to get current query params
                  const params = locationService.getSearchObject();

                  // Use @grafana/data urlUtil to render drilldown URL with query params.
                  return urlUtil.renderUrl('/a/<PLUGIN_ID>/my-app/${__value.text:percentencode}', params);
                },
              },
            ],
          },
        ],
      },
    ],
  },
});
```

The above panel will have links for all values of the `handler` field. Clicking on value will redirect to a particular endpoint drilldown URL that will show Not found page. We will setup this view in the next step.

:::note

> The `fieldConfig` are the same options you would see in your normal dashboard panels when you view `Panel JSON` from the Table panel inspect drawer. You find the panel inspect drawer in the panel menu under the name `Inspect`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `fieldConfig` options are the same options you would see in your normal dashboard panels when you view `Panel JSON` from the Table panel inspect drawer. To access panel inspect drawer, click **Inspect** in the panel edit menu.
```

:::

:::info
Using `locationService` and `urlUtil` comes handy if you want to preserve variables and time range query params.
`${__value.text:percentencode}` is percent encoded value of the clicked table cell.
:::

### Step 3. Build drilldown page

> Modify the `getSceneApp` function to setup drilldown scenes. Use `drilldowns` property of the `SceneAppPage` object. `drilldowns` property accepts an array of `SceneAppDrilldownView` objects. It allows drilldown URL and page to be rendered configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify the `getSceneApp` function to set up drilldown scenes. Use the `drilldowns` property of the `SceneAppPage` object. The `drilldowns` property accepts an array of `SceneAppDrilldownView` objects. It allows drilldown URL and page to be rendered configuration:
```
